HDDS-11626. Document short-circuit read feature (#7529)
apache/ozone: hadoop-hdds/docs/content/feature/Short-Circuit-Read.md

The `ozone checknative` command can be used to detect whether `libhadoop.so` can be found and loaded successfully by Ozone service.

## Configuration

Short-circuit local reads need to be configured on both the DataNode and the client. By default, it is disabled.

```XML
<property>
   <name>ozone.client.read.short-circuit</name>
   <value>false</value>
   <description>Disable or enable the short-circuit local read feature.</description>
</property>
```

It makes use of a UNIX domain socket, a special path in the filesystem. You will need to set a path to this socket. 

```XML
<property>
   <name>ozone.domain.socket.path</name>
   <value>/var/lib/ozone_dn_socket</value>
   <description>The path used to create domain socket.</description>
</property>
```

The DataNode needs to be able to create this path. On the other hand, it should not be possible for any user except the Ozone user(user who launches Ozone service) or root to create this path. For this reason, paths under `/var/run` or `/var/lib` are often used， just like the current default value `/var/lib/ozone_dn_socket`.

> If you configure the `ozone.domain.socket.path` to another value, for example `/dir1/dir2/ozone_dn_socket`, please make sure that both `dir1` and `dir2` are exiting directories, but the file `ozone_dn_socket` does not exist under `dir2`. `ozone_dn_socket` will be created by Ozone Datanode later during its startup.

Reviewer: Small nit: Typo in 'exiting', it should be 'existing'.

  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->

Current in Ozone, client reads data over GRPC from Datanode. When the client asks the DataNode to read a file, the DataNode reads that file off of the disk and sends the data to the client over GRPC connection.

This “short-circuit” local read feature will bypass the DataNode, allowing the client to read the file from local disk directly when the client is co-located with the data on the same server.

Short-circuit local read can provide a substantial performance boost to many applications, by removing the overhead of network communication. 
  
## Prerequisite

Short-circuit local reads make use of a UNIX domain socket. This is a special path in the filesystem that allows the client and the DataNodes to communicate.

The Hadoop native library "libhadoop.so" provides the support to use the Unix domain socket. Please refer to Native Libraries ("https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/stable/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-common/NativeLibraries.html") for details of this library.

> Before enabling short-circuit local reads, you must have a proper libhadoop.so, and make sure it's under the directory where Java can find and load it through "System.loadLibrary()" call.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what is meant by a "proper" libhadoop.so. These three mini paragraphs all address the same topic and can be grouped into one paragraph. Additionally we should have instructions for how to make java see the library before talking about loading it.

The paths that Java will search for libraries are specified by the "java.library.path" property. The default value of "java.library.path" depends on the OS and Java version. For example, on Linux with OpenJDK 8 it is `/usr/java/packages/lib/amd64:/usr/lib64:/lib64:/lib:/usr/lib`.

> Command "ozone checknative" can be used to detect whether libhadoop.so can be loaded successfully by Ozone service. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ozone checknative` command can be used to detect whether `libhadoop.so` can be loaded successfully by Ozone. 
```

## Configuration

Short-circuit local reads need to be configured on both the DataNode and the client. By default, it is disabled.

```XML
<property>
   <name>ozone.client.read.short-circuit</name>
   <value>false</value>
   <description>Disable or enable the short-circuit local read feature.</description>
</property>
```

It makes use of a UNIX domain socket, a special path in the filesystem. You will need to set a path to this socket. 

```XML
<property>
   <name>ozone.domain.socket.path</name>
   <value>/var/lib/ozone_dn_socket</value>
   <description>The path used to create domain socket.</description>
</property>
```

The DataNode needs to be able to create this path. On the other hand, it should not be possible for any user except the Ozone user(user who launches Ozone service) or root to create this path. For this reason, paths under /var/run or /var/lib are often used， just like the current default value "/var/lib/ozone_dn_socket".

> If you configure the "ozone.domain.socket.path" to other value, for example "/dir1/dir2/ozone_dn_socket", please make sure that both dir1 and dir2 are exiting directories, and there is no ozone_dn_socket under dir2. ozone_dn_socket will be created by Ozone Datanode later during Datanode start.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you configure the "ozone.domain.socket.path" to another value, for example `/dir1/dir2/ozone_dn_socket`, please make sure that both `dir1` and `dir2` are existing directories, but the file `ozone_dn_socket` does not exist under `dir2`. `ozone_dn_socket` will be created during Datanode startup.
```

### Security Consideration

> To ensure data security and integrity, Ozone will follow the rule as Hadoop ("https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/HADOOP2/SocketPathSecurity") on "ozone.domain.socket.path" path permission check. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To ensure data security and integrity, Ozone will follow the same rules as Hadoop to check permission on the `ozone.domain.socket.path` path as documented in [Socket Path Security](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/HADOOP2/SocketPathSecurity). 
```
Is there a better resource for this somewhere on hadoop.apache.org/docs? Linking to confluence instead of official docs is not great, and this link is hardcoded to an old hadoop 2 url that will not get updated with subsequent versions.

Reviewer 2: Also, is our implementation using hadoop linraries to do these permission checks or did we re-implement them ourselves? If we are using hadoop then it makes since to link to hadoop docs so they update with the code. If we re-implemented them ourselves we should also "re-implement" our own documentation so they match now and in the future.

Author: The same libhadoop.so is used as Hadoop.  No re-implementation of native code part.

It will fail the "ozone.domain.socket.path" verification and disable the feature if the filesystem permissions of the specified path are inadequate. 

> The verification failure message carries detail instruction about how to fix the problem. Following is an example, 
> 
> "The path component: '/etc/hadoop' in '/etc/hadoop/ozone_dn_socket' has permissions 0777 uid 0 and gid 0. It is not protected because it is world-writable. This might help: 'chmod o-w /etc/hadoop'. For more information: https://wiki.apache.org/hadoop/SocketPathSecurity"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The verification failure message carries instructions about how to fix the problem. Here is an example: 

\```
The path component: '/etc/hadoop' in '/etc/hadoop/ozone_dn_socket' has permissions 0777 uid 0 and gid 0. It is not protected because it is world-writable. This might help: 'chmod o-w /etc/hadoop'. For more information: https://wiki.apache.org/hadoop/SocketPathSecurity
\```
```

---
title: "Short Circuit Local Read in Datanode"
weight: 2
menu:
   main:
      parent: Features
summary: Introduction to Ozone Datanode Short Circuit Local Read Feature
---
<!---
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
  contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
  this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
  The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
  (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
  the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->

> By default, client reads data over GRPC from the Datanode. When the client asks the Datanode to read a file, the DataNode reads that file off of the disk and sends the data to the client over a GRPC connection.

Author: Ethan,  you previously have left comment about prefer "DataNode" over "Datanode".  So I changed all  "Datanode" to "DataNode".

> By default, client reads data over GRPC from the Datanode. When the client asks the Datanode to read a file, the DataNode reads that file off of the disk and sends the data to the client over a GRPC connection.

Reviewer 2: I think you misread the comment. It is [here](https://github.com/apache/ozone/pull/7529#discussion_r1870390885) and unedited.
> We should standardize on Datanode. The new website strictly enforces this

[Here](https://github.com/apache/ozone-site/blob/d5d14a76aa16420b1e69bac06b2bcd1a5f5cb698/.markdownlint.yaml#L71) is where the capitalization check is enforced on the new website

> By default, client reads data over GRPC from the Datanode. When the client asks the Datanode to read a file, the DataNode reads that file off of the disk and sends the data to the client over a GRPC connection.

Author: Okay, I changed it oppositely :)

This “short-circuit” local read feature will bypass the DataNode, allowing the client to read the file from local disk directly when the client is co-located with the data on the same server.

Short-circuit local read can provide a substantial performance boost to many applications, by removing the overhead of network communication. 
  
## Prerequisite

Short-circuit local reads make use of a UNIX domain socket. This is a special path in the filesystem that allows the client and the DataNodes to communicate.

The Hadoop native library `libhadoop.so` provides support to for Unix domain sockets. Please refer to Hadoop's [Native Libraries Guide](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/stable/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-common/NativeLibraries.html) for details.

> The Hadoop version used in Ozone is defined by `hadoop.version` in pom.xml. Before enabling short-circuit local reads, find the `libhadoop.so` from the corresponding version Hadoop release package, put it under one of the directories specified by Java `java.library.path` property. The default value of `java.library.path` depends on the OS and Java version. For example, on Linux with OpenJDK 8 it is `/usr/java/packages/lib/amd64:/usr/lib64:/lib64:/lib:/usr/lib`.

Author: "hadoop.version" value is specified in Ozone pom.xml.

> The Hadoop version used in Ozone is defined by `hadoop.version` in pom.xml. Before enabling short-circuit local reads, find the `libhadoop.so` from the corresponding version Hadoop release package, put it under one of the directories specified by Java `java.library.path` property. The default value of `java.library.path` depends on the OS and Java version. For example, on Linux with OpenJDK 8 it is `/usr/java/packages/lib/amd64:/usr/lib64:/lib64:/lib:/usr/lib`.

Reviewer 2: Yes but Ozone ships with an empty pom by default. So I'm assuming the user is required to add this key and value and there's no default built into the code, but the docs don't specify this. The current phrasing sounds like the user should just check the xml file and the value will already be there.

> The Hadoop version used in Ozone is defined by `hadoop.version` in pom.xml. Before enabling short-circuit local reads, find the `libhadoop.so` from the corresponding version Hadoop release package, put it under one of the directories specified by Java `java.library.path` property. The default value of `java.library.path` depends on the OS and Java version. For example, on Linux with OpenJDK 8 it is `/usr/java/packages/lib/amd64:/usr/lib64:/lib64:/lib:/usr/lib`.

Author: It's Ozone project's pom.xml, not ozone-site.xml.

   <description>Disable or enable the short-circuit local read feature.</description>
</property>
```

It makes use of a UNIX domain socket, a special path in the filesystem. You will need to set a path to this socket. 

```XML
<property>
   <name>ozone.domain.socket.path</name>
   <value></value>
   <description> This is a path to a UNIX domain socket that will be used for 
      communication between the DataNode and local Ozone clients. 
      If the string "_PORT" is present in this path, it will be replaced by the TCP port of the DataNode.
   </description>
</property>
```

The DataNode needs to be able to create this path. On the other hand, it should not be possible for any user except the Ozone user(user who launches Ozone service) or root to create this path. For this reason, paths under `/var/run` or `/var/lib` are often used.

If you configure the `ozone.domain.socket.path` to some value, for example `/dir1/dir2/ozone_dn_socket`, please make sure that both `dir1` and `dir2` are existing directories, but the file `ozone_dn_socket` does not exist under `dir2`. `ozone_dn_socket` will be created by Ozone Datanode later during its startup.

### Security Consideration

> To ensure data security and integrity, Ozone will follow the same rules as Hadoop to check permission on the `ozone.domain.socket.path` path as documented in [Socket Path Security](https://wiki.apache.org/hadoop/SocketPathSecurity).
> It will fail the `ozone.domain.socket.path` verification and disable the feature if the filesystem permissions of the specified path are inadequate.
> The verification failure message carries detail instruction about how to fix the problem. Following is an example, 

Reviewer 2: These should be soft wrapped. The hard wrapping is not preserved in the rendered markdown and it makes the text harder to edit later. For easier editing set your markdown editor to use soft wraps.
```suggestion
To ensure data security and integrity, Ozone will follow the same rules as Hadoop to check permissions on the `ozone.domain.socket.path` path as documented in [Socket Path Security](https://wiki.apache.org/hadoop/SocketPathSecurity). It will fail the `ozone.domain.socket.path` verification and disable the feature if the filesystem permissions of the specified path are inadequate. The verification failure message carries detailed instructions about how to fix the problem. Following is an example: 
```

```XML
<property>
   <name>ozone.domain.socket.path</name>
   <value></value>
   <description> This is a path to a UNIX domain socket that will be used for 
      communication between the Datanode and local Ozone clients. 
      If the string "_PORT" is present in this path, it will be replaced by the TCP port of the Datanode.
   </description>
</property>
```

The Datanode needs to be able to create this path. On the other hand, it should not be possible for any user except the user who launches Ozone service or root to create this path. For this reason, paths under `/var/run` or `/var/lib` are often used.

If you configure the `ozone.domain.socket.path` to some value, for example `/dir1/dir2/ozone_dn_socket`, please make sure that both `dir1` and `dir2` are existing directories, but the file `ozone_dn_socket` does not exist under `dir2`. `ozone_dn_socket` will be created by Ozone Datanode later during its startup.

### Example Configuration
To enable short-circuit read, here is an example configuration.

```XML
<property>
   <name>ozone.client.read.short-circuit</name>

>    <value>false</value>

Reviewer 3: To enable needs to change to `"true"`
